{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11180\viewh9720\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\qc\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Biobricks, 
\b0 a
\b  
\b0 command line program to build and organize your personal Registry.
\b \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Biobricks 
\b0 is a perl-based script that allows fast and easy queries of the Registry of Standard Biological Parts. For each part that you search, the corresponding XML file will be downloaded to your computer and pertinent information will be displayed. Also, locations of a certain biobrick in your lab (with comments, such as concentration, resistance or anything else you want to include) can be associated with a part ID. \
\

\b Biobricks
\b0  is able to download a wealth of information on the current inventory of Biobrick parts to your computer, resulting in offline functioning and simply much faster access. To do this, run the dl_part_data.pl script and choose whether to download info for All parts or just those listed as Available by the Registry. The program will then save each part's corresponding file to the PARTS folder in the Biobricks parent directory. \
\
You may also want to download part information present in the Registry's wiki pages for each part. Right now 
\b Biobricks
\b0  only supports downloading more comprehensive descriptions, but in the future the sky is the limit. To download these descriptions, simply run the script 'get_descriptions.pl' and they will be downloaded to the Descriptions directory. \
\
---------------------------------\
Throughout learning to use this program, I have included part files for B1202, K416000 and K416001 in the initial download. Feel free to use these IDs to begin learning how to use the program. \
\

\b STARTING
\b0 \
To start the 
\b Biobricks
\b0  program, simply run it in the command line by typing perl and then the location for the file. If you drag the Biobricks folder to the desktop, then this should work:\
\
	perl ./Desktop/Biobricks/biobricks.pl\
\
\

\b OPERATION
\b0 \
At this time, the main function of the biobricks program are to lookup part information and to store locations of certain parts in your lab. \
\
 - To lookup info on a part, simply type the part ID (i.e. b0014) when prompted. \
\
 - To add a location, type the part ID and -l (i.e. b0014 -l). \
\
 - To delete a certain location, type the part ID -d and then the location number you wish to delete (i.e. b0014 -d2). \
\
\

\b FILE
\b0  
\b SYSTEM
\b0 \
All of the files that the Biobricks program relies on are located in the Biobricks folder. I've made the program as portable as possible, so if you copy the Biobricks folder then you will also copy all of your other biobrick info, including locations and comments. All you need to worry about is the difference when starting the program in the command line. \
\
The part files downloaded from the Registry are saved as 
\i partID
\i0 .XML in the Parts subdirectory. Conveniently, your locations and comments for each biobrick are all stored in the HASHDATA file. If you have multiple computers to work of off, you may considering moving this file (and changing the file path) to a file sharing service such as a Dropbox folder - allowing you to access the same library off of any of your computers. \
\
\

\b DOWNLOADING THE REGISTRY\

\b0 The download_data.pl script included in the folder is capable of downloading copious part information from the Registry. The script will allow you to specify whether you want to download all of the part files or only the available part files. The parts list that this relies on was current as of the last Registry parts dump (from which Biobrick IDs were mined) made on 6 April 2010. [If you have a better way to get a full list of parts, let me know]\
	Downloading available parts results in a file size ~20MB, All parts ~83MB\

\b \

\b0 Downloading accessory part information from the Registry's wiki will also take up some space, but it is relatively negligible as most parts will not contain this information. To download more comprehensive part descriptions, run the 'get_descriptions.pl' script. 
\b \
\

\b0 ------------------------------------\
\
\
Note on Perl scripts: \
	If you have never used Perl before, then you may not know how to use the command line. All you have to do is open the Terminal, type in 'perl' and then drag and drop the script file onto the Terminal window. The file location will automatically be copied, so all you have to do then is press enter and follow the instructions. \
\
Don't worry about capitalization, it's all done for you. \
}